# **Lab 11: Create a Power BI report**

You can easily embed interactive Power BI reports in Microsoft Teams
channels and chats.

## **Exercise 1: Create a Power BI report**

Previously, you connected to your Dataverse for Teams table data and
then transformed it. Now, you can build a report with interactive
visualizations by using the Report view in Power BI.

### **Task 1: Add a Stacked column chart**

1.  In the **Power BI desktop**, select the **Report view**.

![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image1.png)

2.  Select the **Stacked Column Chart** icon from
    the **Visualizations** pane on the right.

![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image2.png)

3.  Select and drag the following elements from the **Fields** pane:

**Name** field to X Axis

**Equipmentlist** field to Y Axis

![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image3.png)

4.  Notice that the chart shows the data by location. As we have minimal
    amount of data in the table created, the view is as shown below.

![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image4.png)

5.  **Resize** the chart in the report canvas by selecting and dragging
    the indicated border controls. Have the chart fill up the upper-left
    portion of the canvas.

![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image5.png)

### **Task 2: Save the report**

1.  Save the report by selecting **File \> Save** **as** in the menu.

![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image6.png)

![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image7.png)

2.  Enter **EquipmentTrends** as a name and then select **Save**.

![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image8.png)

**Note**: Power BI Desktop uses a pbix file extension for its saved
files.

### **Task 3: Publish the report**

For users to access the report in Teams, the report and dataset need to
be published to a workspace. A Power BI workspace is an area to store
reports, workbooks, datasets, and dashboards in Power BI service. Every
Power BI user has a My workspace area that only they have access to.
From My workspace, users can share reports and dashboards. Members of
workspaces that are created in Power BI have access to any reports that
are published to them.

1.  From the Report view in Power BI, Select **Publish** from
    the Home ribbon.

![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image9.png)

2.  If you haven't signed into **Power BI Desktop** yet, you will be
    prompted for credentials.

After you have successfully signed in, select **My workspace** to
publish the report.

> ![Graphical user interface, text, application, email Description
> automatically generated](./media/image10.png)

3.  You will see the below message after successful publishing.

> ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
> incorrect.](./media/image11.png)

## **Exercise 2: Embed a report in Microsoft Teams**

1.  Go to Microsoft Teams and select Teams from left navigation pane.

![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image12.png)

2.  Open **TestChannel** in **Microsoft Teams** and select
    the **+** icon.

![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image13.png)

3.  Search and select the **Power BI tab**.

![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image14.png)

4.  Select **Save** to create a tab.

![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image15.png)

5.  Select **Browse Workspaces**.

![](./media/image16.png)

6.  Use the provided options to select **EquipmentTrends** report from
    **My workspace**. Click **Add**.

![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image17.png)

7.  The tab name updates automatically to match the name of the report
    name.

![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image18.png)

8.  If you want, you can change the tab name by selecting **Rename** as
    shown in the image below.

![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image19.png)

## **Exercise 3: Get a link preview**

Follow these steps to get a link preview for content in the Power BI
service.

1.  Select **App launcher** at to-left corner of the Teams.

![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image20.png)

2.  Select **Microsoft 365**.

![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image21.png)

3.  Select **Power BI**.

![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image22.png)

4.  Scroll down and go to the **Recent** tab and select your report -
    **EquipmentTrends**.

![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image23.png)

5.  Copy the link of the report from the browser address bar to the
    report in the Power BI service.

![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image24.png)

6.  Go to **Teams** using
    [**https://teams.microsoft.com**](https://teams.microsoft.com).

7.  Select **Teams** from left navigation pane. select the **Test
    Team**, browse to the **TestChannel** channel and click **Start a
    post.**

![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image25.png)

8.  Paste the link in the **Microsoft Teams** message box.

![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image26.png)

9.  The rich link preview card shows the link and relevant action
    buttons.

> ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
> incorrect.](./media/image27.png)
